When GSD was released a few months ago,
it was one of the most powerful
orchestration layers you could use in
combination with cloud code. And just a
few days ago, GSD2 was released and with
it a huge set of changes. And the
biggest change is that GSD2 no longer
lives inside of cloud code. It's no
longer a simple orchestration layer.
Instead, it's actually its own agentic
coding CLI tool that's built on top of
the PI SDK. So what does that mean?
Well, it means GSD is no longer a Claude
Code add-on. It's a Cloud Code
competitor. And in this video, I put
these two agent coding titans in a
head-to-head test so you know exactly
which coding tool you should be using.
And along the way, I will also break
down what GST even is, how it works, and
how it differs from its original
incarnation. So, before we dive into
GSD2, just a quick plug for my Claude
Code Masterass. Just a few days ago, we
already updated 20 of the modules, added
an additional hour of content. So, if
you're looking to go from zero to AI
dev, no matter your technical
background, this is what you need. You
can find it inside of Chase AI Plus.
There is a link to that in the pinned
comment. I also have the free Chase AI
community that can be found in the
description. So, there's something for
everyone. Now, GSD2 is obviously the
upgrade from GSD. The original get [__]
done was essentially an orchestration
layer that lived on top of cloud code.
You use GSD inside of cloud code. One of
the biggest differences with GSD2 is
that it no longer lives inside of cloud
code. Instead, it is now a standalone
CLI built on the PI SDK. This is a
pretty massive change, especially when
it comes to cost, and we'll talk about
that in a little bit. Now the cell for
GSD2 versus its clawed code incarnation
is that we can essentially have it do
everything for us. We can just give it
one command, give it one prompt and come
back to a built project with a clean git
history. Essentially, it's much more
autonomous than its previous version.
And inside the GitHub, there is an
entire chart that breaks down at a more
granular level what changed from v1 to
v2. And again, the biggest thing here is
that we're going from cloud code/comands
to an actual standalone CLI. That being
said, in terms of its theoretical core
of how it attacks problems, it's pretty
much the same. The big thing with GSD
before was, hey, we're taking your big
idea, your big app plan. We're breaking
it down into individual phases. We're
breaking down each phase into individual
tasks. And we're having sub agents
execute on each individual task in its
own context window. And we see that
here, the iron rule. A task must fit in
one context window. If it can't, it's
two tasks. And why is that? Well, even
though we have larger context windows
now in Opus 4.6 six and sonnet 4.6.
They're still better at the beginning of
the window, right? They've gotten pretty
good at large context, but at the end of
the day, I'd rather be starting at zero
than at token 700,000. So, GSD makes
sure that's the case for every single
task. And I alluded to this before, but
another big GSD2 feature is the auto
setting, which essentially means you
give it a plan, you walk away, and it's
going to finish all of it for you. And
what's going on under the hood is again
broken down at a very detailed level
here inside the GitHub. But you aren't
forced to go into the auto feature. You
have the ability to be in step mode. So
you still can be more hands-on if that's
what you want to do. Now let's talk
about cost for a second because this is
a big deal. Like I said, we're no longer
using GSD exclusively inside of Cloud
Code. It's no longer just an
orchestration layer. This is its own CLI
tool that runs on PI SDK. What does that
mean if you're a Cloud Code Max Plan
user? Well, GSD2 will say, "Hey, like
you can use the OOTH and MAX plan. Like
you don't need an API key." I would
highly suggest you do not do this.
Remember when everyone was getting
banned using their Max accounts in
OpenClaw? This is the same thing. And
Anthropic lately has been a bit more
explicit about this. You cannot use your
Max plan outside of clawed code. Okay?
If you do that, it might work. Just
understand you may wake up one day and
your account is banned. The same thing
goes for anti-gravity OATH. And this
makes sense. Remember, on your Claw Max
plan, even if you're paying 200 bucks a
month, you are extremely subsidized. For
all intents and purposes, a $200 max
plan is anywhere between 2500 to $5,000
in API credits. So, it makes sense that
they don't want you to be able to take
that subsidized account and just use it
somewhere else outside their ecosystem.
So, what does that mean? That means you
need to use APIs, right? Whether that's
something through open router or we're
actually going to the anthropic website
using an API key, you are going to pay
API costs inside of GSD2 which are much
more expensive than subsidized max
plans. Now, to help out with potential
costs, GSD2 does have a token
optimization system. You can set a
budget for how much money is going to be
spent on any one project. So, you're not
just going to have it go to work and
then wake up and you just spent, you
know, $500. So understand there are some
guardrails, but this is a big deal and a
major thing you need to think about if
you're like, "Hey, should I be working
with GSD2 or should I be moving off of
my CloudMax plan?" So now I'll walk
through the install with you and then
we'll actually run our head-to-head test
with GSD2 versus Cloud Code. So now
let's install this thing. Just copy this
command and paste it into your terminal
and you should see something like this.
Next, we want to log in. So we'll do GSD
and it'll take you through the setup
wizard. So, I suggest using an API key
again because that entire OOTH
discussion we had before. I'll be using
open router. Feel free to use whatever
you want. And I'll be using Brave Search
with GSD. So, I'm just going to paste in
that API key. If you don't have Brave
Search, it's free to sign up. We can
also do remote questions. So, you can
kind of almost have like the same thing
as cloud remote builtin, but we're just
going to skip that for now. And then
we're not going to need the tool keys
for today. So, I also skip that. Now, to
configure some of our preferences, we
can do for/gsdres.
Again, all these commands are in the
GitHub. We're going to go to models and
it wants to know our research phase
model. So what we'll do for this test,
the research and planning models will be
opus 4.6 and the execution models will
be Sonic 4.6. Here we can also enable a
budget. So for the budget ceiling, I'll
put 20 bucks. Should be more than enough
for today and we'll pause it. That'll be
enough for now. Feel free to tinker with
the rest of it as needed. Then you can
also select your model by also doing
forward/model. So now let's talk about
the head-to-head test between GSD2 and
Claude Code. We're going to be using
this prompt. We're going to have it
build a personal expense tracker web app
for us. It's going to have four
features. An expense form, expense list,
a dashboard, and a monthly summary card.
Design is clean, modern, and dark mode.
And then we wanted to fill it with some,
you know, dummy data. So, this prompt is
vague enough that we should be able to
see some divergence between two models,
but it's specific enough in terms of the
features to actually grade what each one
did. and it includes things like
databases. So it's not just like a
landing page we're building here. Now
let's talk about actually using GSD. So
the GitHub suggests having two terminals
up at any time. So the first terminal
will be the GSD auto terminal. That's
like the terminal that's actually
working, right? It's the one doing
everything autonomously and it's just
going to keep running it down till it's
done. The second terminal is like your
discussion terminal. So whatever you
talk about in this second terminal
within the context of that project, it
will eventually make its way to the
actual workhorse terminal if that makes
sense, right? Because it's reading
everything off a disk. So everything we
talk about and discuss here related to
the project will eventually make its way
to the version of GSD that's actually
coding everything. So all that's to say,
when you use GSD, you're going to want
to terminal windows up. Now, when it
comes to cloud code, we're just going to
do the standard thing, right? I'll start
it in plan mode. It'll ask whatever
questions it wants to ask and then we'll
have it go forth and conquer. Now,
inside of GSD to actually get this
working, what you want to do is first
initialize a project. So, we're going to
do forward/gsd and then I'm just going
to paste in the prompt. And similar to
cloud code, it basically comes back and
says, "Hey, are we on the same page? Is
this exactly what you want?"
Yes, that's correct. And now it's going
to go ahead and start planning. Now, as
that's happening, we're going to do the
same thing inside of Cloud Code. Also of
note, we can keep track of our tokens
and how much money we've spent down here
at the bottom of GSD2. So, so far just
in this planning phase, we've already
burned 73 cents. So, over here on the
right hand side with GST2, we can see
how it's broken everything down into
essentially
12 different tasks and included some
things that are out of scope. Now, GSD
is writing the project.md file. Again,
very similar to the original incarnation
of GSD. And this is like the single
source of truth for what it is we're
actually building from a highle
overview. And it's also doing the same
for requirements.md.
And over here on the left, we have the
standard cloud code plan, right? Gives
us the architecture, breaks it down into
nine steps, and we're going to say,
"Hey, go ahead, clear context, and go to
work."
And remember, when it comes to cloud
code, it's
not necessarily going to always spawn
sub agents like GSD does to like have a
separate context window for each and
every task. Sometimes cloud code will
spawn some agents. you can be more
explicit with it and say, "Hey, I want
to do agent teams." So, like the tasks
are broken down. And that's kind of the
big difference between cloud code where
it's sort of like a maybe when it comes
to how it deals with context management
versus GSD. We're like, it's very, very
clear. This is how we're going to break
it down and this is how we make sure the
context is always fresh. So, now we're
getting deep in the research phase for
GSD. And now it's asking me, hey, do you
want to be a little more hands-on with
the planning or do we want to just
switch to auto now? So, I'm going to
switch to auto and just let it run. And
again, at this point, like I talked
about before, we still have those two
terminals. So, I can still talk to GSD
even as it's running on auto in this
terminal and be like, "Hey, actually, I
changed my mind. Let's do A, B, and C
instead." But we're going to let it run
and we'll come back when it's either
done or it's burned up all my money.
Okay, they finally finished building the
app. So, let's take a look at the
results. On the left, we have what was
built by Claude Code and on the right,
we have what was built by GSD2. Now,
right away in terms of visual
aesthetics, I'm going to give the nod to
Claude Code. It's pretty easy to tell
that this looks a bit more clean than
the one on the right. Now, in terms of
features, they all hit what I told them
to do, right? We have a dashboard, we
have multiple charts, we have a place to
add expenses, and we have an expense
list. Now, let's look at this a little
more closely on the GSD side. I will say
this add expense and the actual expense
list, again, it leaves a little to be
desired, right? I'm not really blown
away by the front end design here,
although it did do the job. But it's not
enough to just look at the front ends.
What did this actually cost us in terms
of both time and money? Because like I
said at the beginning, the fact that we
go outside of the cloud code ecosystem
and we're now on pure API costs is
something we need to take into account.
And I will say in that category, GSD2
did leave something to be desired. In
fact, it cost me almost $30
to actually create what you just saw. It
was about $2720 in API costs to do this
using Opus 4.6 for planning and Sonnet
4.6 for execution. Yes. Are anthropic
models expensive when it comes to APIs?
Of course they are. But we're comparing
this to clawed code. If you want to use
GSD, you need to understand we're doing
something differently. So these costs
matter. On the other side of the
equation with cloud code, this used less
than 1% of my usage for the five hour
block. Not even for the week. for the 5
hour block less than 1% usage. On top of
that, let's talk about the time it took.
For cla code, it took 4 minutes and 38
seconds to put this together. 4 minutes
and 38 seconds. For GSD,
this took about an hour and a half. And
the reason it took almost an hour and a
half is because we got hung up multiple
times. Like you will see here during its
actual execution process, it started
getting stuck. And I let it run for a
little bit. Now, when it was running, as
it was stuck, it wasn't burning any
tokens. So, that's not the reason why it
was so expensive. But, it sat here again
for 17 minutes and then for again for
almost 40 minutes. It just stopped. I
tried running GSD stop, that didn't do
anything. Eventually, I had to actually
kill it entirely. And so, when I hopped
to the second terminal to do the same
thing again, we got hung up. It wasn't
until I completely shut it all down,
spun it up for a third time, did we get
what you see here. And so in terms of
time, an hour and a half for GSD versus
four and a half minutes for cloud code
and less than 1% of my usage for cloud
code versus almost $30 in API costs. And
let's be real, the outcome isn't even
better, right? So
let's kind of talk about this then in a
vacuum then there's kind of no contest
here. Why would we use GSD2 specifically
with anthropic APIs if we're doing
projects like this? There's no reason
to. This is more expensive and it takes
longer.
The reason you would go for GSD then
would be, all right, well, I'm not using
cloud code. I'm not using anti-gravity.
I'm already purely in the API game.
Maybe I like the way that GSD is set up.
There's an argument to be made that what
we did here was rather simple, right?
This expense tracker. and that GSD with
all of its scaffolding around how it
does the plan and how it breaks it down
into tasks and all the context window
management that this is like bringing a
nuclear bomb to a knife fight, right?
This is just too much power for what
we're trying to do. And there's also an
argument to be made like, hey, why are
we using anthropic models here? Right?
Did we really need Opus 4.6 and Sonic
4.6 to do this? Maybe not. But then
that's a whole another like decision
point you have to take into account when
you're using something like GSD2 like
are we using the right model for the job
instead of like we're in cloud code like
I can go crazy I can do opus 4.6 1
million co context window length
extended thinking max effort not even
think about it but if I'm using this now
I do need to think about it's like did I
actually choose the right model? Was it
too powerful? Am I getting charged too
much? Am I not doing enough power?
Right? That's very much a gray area.
It's not an exact science to what model
to use. So, I know it sounds like I'm
kind of railing on GSD2 here, but I will
be honest, this is
not super impressive when we do this
head-to-head right now. I think part of
that has to do with the example we use.
I think part of it has to do with the
fact that this is still very new inside
of GSD2, but if we're going to be
charging me, if I have to pay API costs,
like this needs to knock it out of the
park. Like this is so subsidized with
claw code. It makes no sense not to use
it. If we're going to go outside of claw
code or go outside of codeex or go
outside of anti-gravity like you got to
blow me out of the water because of the
cost difference. You just do. And to be
and to be honest, I'm just not blown out
of the water. So my final thoughts are
this. I still really like the way GS2
handles things, right? The whole
theoretical idea of us breaking down
this, you know, plan into phases into
tasks and context window. It's great.
It's great. But I don't think what it's
buying us now is worth it. The second we
go outside of cloud code, it's just too
expensive. It's just too expensive. And
frankly, it's a bit too slow. And again,
perhaps there's an argument to be made
where, hey, we want to use GSD2 when
we're doing some like huge huge project.
But again, that also comes with the
requisite API costs. So I have a very
hard time with suggesting to use GS2
GSD2 right now if you're using cloud
code. Feels kind of tough to say that
because I did love the original GSD
within the Cloud Code context, but I
think the results speak for themselves.
So, as always, let me know what you
thought about this inside the comments.
Make sure to check out Chase AI Plus for
the Cloud Code Masterass or the free
Chase AI community if you're just
getting started. And other than that,
I'll see you